The tack in heavy weather presents three difficulties.
The first is to go up enough to the wind.
In many cases, it seems impossible to close the mainsail sufficiently with the risk of capsizing.
The second difficulty is that once facing the wind, the boat will quickly retreat,
which will require reversing the direction of the rudders.
The third difficulty is a significant risk of capsizing from behind
while the boat moves back.
So we are upwind, port tack.
Being overpowered, it seems impossible to tuck the mainsail enough.
We are therefore close to tight, and edge the mainsail as much as possible.
As we are up close, we launch the tack by gently pushing
the bar, without breaking the pace of the boat.
It will be possible to finish tying the mainsail if necessary.
When the jib is inflated against, it indicates that the boat is facing the wind.
It is then immediately necessary to shock the big sail.
Immediately after, the boat retreats.
This moment must be watched carefully.
The front of the boat rises, it recedes on the water, and especially we feel that the
rudders tend to go to extreme positions.
At this precise moment, it is necessary to reverse the rudders, that is to say to pull the bar.
We will not pull the bar fully, to avoid getting the boat up, which could
have it desalinated from behind.
Then let the boat back and away from the wind.
When the boat reaches a near-full position, the mainsail returns to
to work although it is entirely shocked.
The boat then stops backing up and starts moving forward.
At this moment, you have to reverse the bar again, change sides and then resume
the jib on the good tack, and finally we can gently tuck the grand'voile.
Here is the complete maneuver without comment.